---
title: 
date: 2020-01-21T10:29:18Z
author: Nick Lewis
layout: post
slug: 21%20Jan%202020%20at%2010:29.md
summary: xxx
section: xxx
---


		HOME 
		ABOUT 
		FAQ 
		CONTACT 
Join the Community 
		Home About FAQ Contact 
Join the Community 
REFACTOR YOUR BODY

Sitting, pizza, deadlines, caffeine, hot fixes, burgers, and office politics is a seriously destructive pattern to your current and long term health. 
But you can start fighting back today. 
That’s where we come in. 

BACK FOR A LIMITED TIME: 8-Week Plans
Looking to get in shape for the new year? Our 8-week personalized training and nutrition plans are back thru January. 
View 8-Week Plans 

DevLifts is awesome. They listened to my goals, asked about my current situation and gave me just what I needed to lose some weight and get healthy. As a developer obsessed with productivity, this was the ultimate energy hack — I feel great and it shows in my work. 

WES BOS 
DEVELOPER & TEACHER 
 
FIGHT BACK

Do any of these apply to you?
We understand the health and fitness problems associated with the lifestyle of developers. Everything we do — from creating training and nutrition to writing content — will always be done in service to helping you solve these problems. 

Is your back hurting from sitting? 

Do you want to lose some weight? 

Are you exhausted all the time? 

Are your clothes not fitting like they used to? 

Are you looking to bulk up? 

Are you anxious or depressed? 

Do you want to improve your flexibility? 

As an overworked developer with long term ulnar nerve damage, working out has been exceptionally difficult. DevLifts was able to help me get started on strengthening my body by taking the time to customize my workout plan to not exert my damaged nerves. Combined with a strong community to help answer questions, I've managed to start improving myself despite my struggles with pain. 

PAUL MORRISON 
PRODUCT ENGINEER AT RIVALRY.GG 
TALK TO OTHER MEMBERS

Join the community
Join the DevLifts community and take control of your health. 
After signing up, you’ll be invited to join our private Slack community, where you can ask us questions directly and share your progress and what you’re learning with other developers who are also on their fitness journey. 



Join the Community 

DevLifts was exactly what I needed to get back into shape. I was too busy to plan my workout and research a diet plan. Having a workout schedule and diet put together for me eliminated my excuses. Now I'm 50% stronger and 25lbs lighter. 

AJ LONGSTREET 
DEVELOPER AT MORNING STAR SECURITY SYSTEMS 
READY TO CHANGE YOUR LIFE?

We would love to get to know you
Join the Community 
Have any doubts or questions for us? 
Get in Touch 

I found a judgement-free community of people like me that are getting after their own fitness! They all speak my language and understand my struggles because of the easy communication — plus we can lament burpees together :) 

DAN WAGNER 
DATA CONSULTANT 
Refactor your code. Refactor your body. 
We exist to help developers overcome painful and unhealthy habits and learn to live healthier lives through training and community. 
Refactoring dev bods since 2017. 

LINKS
Home
About
Join
FAQ
Contact
LEGAL STUFF
Disclaimer
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
CONTACT
jc@devlifts.io
thad@devlifts.io
Twitter: @DevLifts
Instagram: @DevLifts

GET WEEKLY FITNESS TIPS AND STORIES

SUBMIT
We use cookies to improve user experience, and analyze website traffic. For these reasons, we may share your site usage data with our analytics partners. By clicking “Accept Cookies,” you consent to store on your device all the technologies described in our Cookie Policy. You can change your cookie settings at any time by clicking “Cookie Preferences.” Please read our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy for full details.
Cookie PreferencesAccept cookies

